{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\info
{\author Hannah Weller}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12340\viewh14300\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 please don\'92t worry so much. about other people, but in general, also. first of all: most of them, including me (!), care mostly about themselves, and do not have the time or energy for the little jabs you find everywhere, and even if they did, most people are wrong most of the time. when have you guessed right about the nature of a person? not a lot. you change your mind so much and it is unfair not to give that same thing to the rest of us.\
\
second: be patient. a) suffering is good for you, because it happens a lot, and you have no natural talent for dealing with it and so must practice; and b) it is only at a level with what you have experienced so far. if you are experiencing something new (always), you are going to suffer a little bit, because this is the kind of person you are (frightened). this is what learning is. this is ok.\
\
third: be nicer to the people around you. they are also suffering (see item 2), and even if they are not nice to you, it might not be because they find you ugly or unpleasant. it is, basically, selfish to think that you are the only explanation for all of this. \
\
if we look at the worst case scenario, it is: you are truly, fundamentally unlikeable, and people who meet you do not want to be around you, even though you have done your best to become the kind of person that people want to be around (via a variety of misguided methods, vis. trying to be very good at statistics and computers; trying to make lots of jokes; trying to be physically attractive (cannot really achieve this one with available means, but would not work); trying to care more about other people than yourself (also impossible with current means)). this is what you are very afraid of, basically.\
\
ok. first, you have managed to find some people anyways. second, you will never have a 100% success rate. you know this because you instantly dislike anyone who seems extremely likeable, because you assume they must hate you. therefore, these extremely likeable people do not have a 100% success rate, and continue living. \
\
here is what being likeable would get you: terror of this power slipping away as you age or change in any way. here is what you have instead: you can change, now, in any way you like (!). as soon as you figure this out, you can quit it with worrying about everyone you meet. you are very busy changing, and if you can help each other, great, and if not, ok, no paths crossing. i know it seems very unfair that there are people who will go through life without having to come to this realization, because they are naturally the kinds of people who receive kindness. it is very unfair, but they actually do not have a lot of things you lack in a tangible sense, except for confidence. and you will have that as soon as you quit it with worrying.\
\
the easy solution is, listen to yourself instead of what you think other people are saying, except that this requires yourself to have good things to say. IF yourself is just repeating things you think other people want you to be, bad. so, where are these things coming from? if the source is suspect, please come back here and read these sentences again: you deserve space and respect, you owe other people forgiveness and room to grow, and you are worth knowing. you are valuable. please act like it.}